Ror a dead e mom a lol, wow ie dod ie sos e Gog e hoh ei mom sos pop ror a coc hoh e gog e hoho tot!
Can you find a regularity in the secret? Try to find rules for this secret language!
Sos u pop e ror! And you have already met your first secret language. By the way, I am Bobinondodlol - Bob for short - and I invented this secret language myself. It belongs to the so-called GAME LANGUAGES as well as the SPOON LANGUAGE or the BI-LANGUAGE and serves the SECRET COMMUNICATION.
[Headline] Why do you need secret communication?
A situation from which a need for communication can arise is actually quite simple: As a youth I had a friend named Alice. Alice and I were terribly fond of each other and told each other all our secrets. But unfortunately, there was the jealous Eve, who was constantly listening to us! Of course it was not right, so I quickly invented the BOB language. Now, even if she was listening to us, Eva understood only the station!
[Chart1]
When Alice moved a few years later, we began to write love letters to each other. Stupidly, the curious Eva dug around in my mailbox, read the letters and then put them back inconspicuously! Even if they were written in the BOB language, they were easy for them to crack. Alice, of course, was terribly embarrassed, and we had to find a new way of secret communication. We did not invent them ourselves, but puzzled through the history books.
The most primitive form of secret communication is STEGANOGRAPHY. This translates to "cover writing" and means that you try to keep messages hidden, such as wizarding or perforated templates. These methods were already used by the ancient Egyptians. For Alice and me, however, these methods were far too cumbersome and easy to discover.
This brings us to the usual form of secret communication: cryptology. Cryptology means "the doctrine of secrecy" - a kind of science for secrets! This science came very much to Alice and to me. With the KRYPTOGRAPHY we learned how to encrypt or decrypt texts. Since we did not have mobile phones or Internet at the time, we talked about CLASSIC CRYPTOGRAPHY as they also used by ancient peoples, for example in the war. The Greeks and Egyptians, for example, used the technique of TRANSPOSITION, that is, the mixing of letters. The Romans, on the other hand, worked with the SUBSTITUTION, the substitution or displacement. If one replaces whole words, one speaks of CODING. But if you only write letters, it is called CHIFFRATING. There are different types of ciphers, such as the CAESAR-CIPHER or VIGENÈRE-CIPHER.
Most forms of classical cryptography have one thing in common: There is always a key. So Alice can use the same encryption but with different keys to write secret messages to me as well as her friends without us being able to read them together. Even Eva, even if she knows how the encryption works, can not decrypt the messages without keys. If transmitter (Alice) and receiver (Bob) have the same key for encryption and decryption, this is a SYMMETRIC ENCRYPTION.
[Chart2]
But there is a problem even with the One-Time-Pad: The keys must be made up by Alice and me first. And what if Eva overheard us? Then she can simply decrypt all our messages! Above all, nowadays, with the use of the Internet, this is a problem since the sender and the recipient often do not have the opportunity to meet personally. Solutions are the QUANTUM CRYPTOGRAPHY, but also ASYMMETRIC ENCRYPTIONS. Alice has both a private and a public key. With the public key you can encrypt texts, but only Alice can decrypt them with the private key. This PUBLIC KEY PROCESS has many variants. Many communication systems use the END-TO-END-ENCRYPTION or the RSA-PROCESS. However, to understand these last procedures, you need many MATHEMATICAL SKILLS. Some of them will only be understood by older students. Others, such as the MODULO-CALCULATION, are understandable for everyone. Most classical ciphers can be learned without prior knowledge.
But cryptology also has a shady side. In the section CRYPTO ANALYSIS you can learn how to use encryption without key. The most famous cryptoanalyst is probably Alan Turing, who has cracked the encryption machine ENIGMA of the national socialists in the second world war.
So much to the secret communication in world history! Now it's your turn. On the edge you will find many categories that you can learn about. In the exercise part you can then check your knowledge. If you want to exchange secret texts with your friends, switch back to the main program and search for an encryption! Have fun!